Update How-to guides for plan and upgrade. (#322)
canonical/charmed-openstack-upgrader: docs/how-to/upgrade-cloud.rst

Upgrade a cloud
===============

Recommendations for upgrading production clouds
-----------------------------------------------

1. Be sure to upgrade in a maintenance window
2. Start with the upgrade on control-plane applications
3. Don't force the upgrade on non-empty hypervisors

> 4. After upgrading the control-plane, choose one empty hypervisor to be a `canary node`.
>     After upgrading it, test if it's behaving as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. After upgrading the **control-plane**, choose one empty hypervisor to be a `canary node`.
    After upgrading it, test if it's behaving as expected.
```

5. If no issues are found after upgrading the `canary node`, proceed with the upgrade.

Run upgrade for the whole cloud
-------------------------------

> To upgrade the whole cloud in a single command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade the whole cloud in a single command:
```

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade

Run upgrade for the control-plane
---------------------------------

> To upgrade a plan targeting the **control-plane** applications use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run an upgrade targeting the **control-plane** applications use:
```

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade control-plane

**Note:** Control-plane applications will be upgraded using the `all-in-one`_ method,

> meaning that all units will be upgraded at once.

Reviewer: I don't think this information should belong to the "how-to" guides. I'm adding this into `explanation` in my upcoming patch.

Reviewer: FYI this is part of the #323

Run upgrade for the data-plane
------------------------------

To upgrade the **data-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou plan data-plane

**Note:**
- It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
being able to upgrade for **data-plane**.
- Nova-compute and services colocated on the same machines will be upgraded using the

> `paused-single-unit`_ method, meaning that it will upgrade unit by unit.

Reviewer: Also this. It would be better suited in `explanation` which I'm adding in my upcoming patch.

Run upgrade for the hypervisors
-------------------------------

To upgrade just the **hypervisors** use:

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade hypervisors

It's also possible to target for specific **availability-zones** or **machines**:

.. code:: bash

    # upgrade for just empty hypervisors in machines 0 and 1
    cou upgrade hypervisors --machine "0, 1"

    # upgrade for all empty hypervisors that are into zone-1
    cou upgrade hypervisors --availability-zone=zone-1

**Note:**
- Those specific filters are mutually exclusive, meaning that it's not possible

> to use then together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use them together.
```

- Since **hypervisors** comprise a subset of **data-plane** components, it is

> also necessary to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
> being able to upgrade the **hypervisors**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also necessary to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
the **hypervisors** can be upgraded..
```

Upgrade a cloud
===============

Recommendations for upgrading production clouds
-----------------------------------------------

1. Be sure to upgrade in a maintenance window
2. Start with the upgrade on control-plane applications
3. Don't force the upgrade on non-empty hypervisors
4. After upgrading the **control-plane**, choose one empty hypervisor to be a `canary node`.

>     After upgrading it, test if it's behaving as expected.

Reviewer: Maybe due to the extra indention on the second line here, this item has a weird format after rendering. Could you take a look at it?

Run upgrade for the whole cloud
-------------------------------

To upgrade the entire OpenStack cloud, including both the **control-plane** and the
**data-plane**, use:

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade

Run upgrade for the control-plane
---------------------------------

To run an upgrade targeting the **control-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade control-plane

Run upgrade for the data-plane
------------------------------

To run an upgrade targeting the **data-plane** applications use:

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade data-plane

**Note:**

- It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
  being able to upgrade the **data-plane**.
- By default, this command will not upgrade hypervisors that have VMs running. See the
  `Upgrade non-empty hypervisors`_ section for instructions on how to include them.

Run upgrade for the hypervisors
-------------------------------

To upgrade just the **hypervisors** use:

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade hypervisors

It's also possible to target for specific Juju **availability-zones** or **machines**:

.. code:: bash

>     # upgrade for just empty hypervisors in machines 0 and 1

Reviewer: This and in a few other places:
```suggestion
    # upgrade for just empty hypervisors on machines 0 and 1
```

Upgrade a cloud
===============

> Recommendations for upgrading production clouds
> -----------------------------------------------
> 
> 1. Be sure to upgrade in a maintenance window
> 2. Start with the upgrade on control-plane applications
> 3. Don't force the upgrade on non-empty hypervisors
> 4. After upgrading the **control-plane**, choose one empty hypervisor to be a `canary node`.
>    After upgrading it, test if it's behaving as expected.
> 5. If no issues are found after upgrading the `canary node`, proceed with the upgrade.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recommendations and guidelines for upgrading production clouds
-----------------------------------------------

1. Upgrades can be disruptive; perform them during a maintenance window
2. The control-plane must be upgraded before the data-plane. Simply use `cou upgrade` without subcommands to ensure the correct ordering of operations.
3. Forcing the upgrade of non-empty hypervisors will disrupt the connectivity of the VMs they are hosting; live-migrate instances away from hypervisors undergoing an upgrade if possible
4. Use the `hypervisors` subcommand to test the upgrade of a single canary machine before upgrading the rest of the data-plane.
```

Author: > The control-plane must be upgraded before the data-plane. Simply use `cou upgrade` 

Did you mean use `cou upgrade control-plane`  ? I guess it makes more sense to the recommendations

> Run upgrade for the whole cloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrade the whole cloud
```

-------------------------------

To upgrade the entire OpenStack cloud, including both the **control-plane** and the
**data-plane**, use:

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade

> Run upgrade for the control-plane

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrade the control-plane
```

---------------------------------

> To run an upgrade targeting the **control-plane** applications use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run an upgrade targeting only the **control-plane** applications use:
```

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade control-plane

> Run upgrade for the data-plane

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrade the data-plane
```

------------------------------

> To run an upgrade targeting the **data-plane** applications use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run an upgrade targeting only the **data-plane** applications use:
```

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade data-plane

**Note:**

- It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
  being able to upgrade the **data-plane**.
- By default, if non-empty hypervisor are identified, they are going to be excluded from the
  upgrade and a warning message will show. See the `Upgrade non-empty hypervisors`_

>   section for instructions on how to include them.

Reviewer 2: same recommendation as for the `plan` phase

> Run upgrade for the hypervisors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrade the hypervisors
```

-------------------------------

To upgrade just the **hypervisors** use:

.. code:: bash

    cou upgrade hypervisors

> It's also possible to target for specific Juju **availability-zones** or **machines**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's also possible to target specific Juju **availability-zones** or **machines**:
```

.. code:: bash

    # upgrade for just empty hypervisors on machines 0 and 1
    cou upgrade hypervisors --machine "0, 1"

    # upgrade for all empty hypervisors that are into zone-1
    cou upgrade hypervisors --availability-zone=zone-1

**Note:**

- Those specific filters are mutually exclusive, meaning that it's not possible
  to use them together.
- Since **hypervisors** comprise a subset of **data-plane** components, it is
  also necessary to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
  the **hypervisors** can be upgraded.
- By default, if non-empty hypervisor are identified, they are going to be excluded from the
  upgrade and a warning message will show. See the `Upgrade non-empty hypervisors`_

>   section for instructions on how to include them.

Reviewer 2: same recommendation as in the `plan` section

Upgrade non-empty hypervisors
-----------------------------
If it's necessary to upgrade non-empty hypervisors, use the `--force` command. For example:

.. code:: bash

    # upgrade data-plane applications using all hypervisors
    cou upgrade data-plane --force

    # upgrade all hypervisors
    cou upgrade hypervisors --force

    # upgrade hypervisors from machines 0 and 1
    cou upgrade hypervisors --machine "0, 1" --force

    # upgrade all hypervisors that are in zone-1
    cou upgrade hypervisors --availability-zone=zone-1 --force

> **Note:** This is not safe and might cause problems in the running VMs. The recommendation
> is to migrate the VMs and upgrade hypervisors machines that are empty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** This will disrupt connectivity for any running VM. Migrate them elsewhere before upgrading if this is undesirable.
```

**Note:**
- Those specific filters are mutually exclusive, meaning that it's not possible
to use them together.
- Since **hypervisors** comprise a subset of **data-plane** components, it is
also necessary to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
the **hypervisors** can be upgraded.
- By default, this command will not upgrade hypervisors that have VMs running. See the

> `Upgrade non-empty hypervisors`_ section to include them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Upgrade non-empty hypervisors`_ section for instructions on how to include them..
```

    :input: cou upgrade --auto-approve --quiet

    Upgrade completed.

.. LINKS
.. _all-in-one: https://docs.openstack.org/charm-guide/latest/admin/upgrades/openstack.html#perform-the-upgrade

> .. _paused-single-unit: https://docs.openstack.org/charm-guide/latest/admin/upgrades/openstack.html#perform-the-upgrade

Reviewer: These links can be removed as they are not being used anywere
